---
title: From zero to C 
author: Pierre-Quentin Deguingand 
---
My friend and I got the same story. We both chose to stop video games almost 2 years ago. Today our life is absolutely different.

I was studying in a good business school in France but I hated the shallowness of business so I was just playing League 10hrs a day instead of going to class, hoping to become good to enough to work in esports as I could not see what else to do in this shitty life.

But then one Tuesday I had a cursing thought. I was 20 years old and had spent at least the last 5 years rushing into video games whenever I could. After school at first, then all night and eventually during school for the last 2 years. I was there, sitting alone in front of my PC in a student room feeling like shit and doing nothing with my life, just being bad at everything when I should have been great at many things. My life sucked and was far away from my childhood ideals. In this very dark moment on this Tuesday evening I sat on my chair and moved my eyes from the screen to the window with one single thought. Where would I be today if I did not played video games for the last 5 years? Where would I be if I did not waste all that time? Who could I be if I had learn what I wanted to learn instead of playing? Who would I be if instead of trying to move my mouse better everyday I had focused on improving myself on all the aspects of an individual? Eventually I thought, would I really be sad about that girl I never get a chance with in high school or would I have been good enough to seduce even her?

From that moment I felt the curse and the heavy weight of so many regrets on my shoulders. I loved playing for sure. But only because everything else was so boring. And eventually, life sucks if you don’t work on it. So my life sucked, so I loved video games. At least I could do something in League and improve. But this day I realized how life would have been entirely different without the games. I spent 10 hrs a day playing games but I did not know what to do in life. What if I had spent those 10 hrs everyday to figure out what I want to do?

I chose to entirely stop playing from this point. I went to school the day after that and told my friend I quit. He looked at me and said “ok I quit too”. He chose to stop slowly, 2hrs a day at first, he believed in the balance. He ended up stopping altogether within 2 months, not even thinking about it, just because he did not want to play anymore. He never played again even when I tried to convince him to play just for fun, or just a bit. Today he is a freelance in digital marketing and I think he is about to leave for Vietnam to build his first company.

I chose to go 100% and not play at all. It worked for 6 months. Then I had a drawback because my internship was annoying so I went back to playing instead. I even quit the internship the last month to move to Paris to give one last chance to myself as a gamer. I was into League because it’s a competition. I wanted to improve and to be better and eventually to become a pro. And I was afraid that it was my dream and that I just gave up on it. So I moved to Paris with another esport friend and I played as much as I could for one month. I had to improve. I was training like a normal athlete in any sport. And then eventually I finally reached my ranking goal, after one month of 14/16 hrs of games by day. I was relieved. But after you achieve something, you have to achieve something else. I had to set an even better goal now and go back into the process. I could not do it. I could not play anymore. I did not want to. For the last two weeks I had been forcing myself to go back in game after game, to wake up in the morning and play. Each game was a pain. I did not have any fun. No enjoyment. It was pure hard work towards this ultimate goal. And when came the goal I realized I did not want that. I did not love video games enough. I did not want to play anymore. I wanted to do something else with my life. I realized I was not this guy, I did not want to be this guy. So I bought books from my childhood. The books that made me cry when I was 12. I read the entire Eragon saga in two weeks. I went back home very very sad (the end of Eragon is the most depressing thing in the universe for me, maybe because it is actually as depressing has the nothingness of the universe). I cried for two days on my couch with my dog. Repeating the last sentences of the book while saying good bye to Arya, forever. “Ce qui aurait put être mais ne sera jamais”. What could have been but shall never be. The strongest sentence ever written. I never went back to League from this point. I was done. I had to do something greater. I had to change, to produce greatness in the world instead of trying to achieve it in a virtual universe. At the end of the day it’s just a different game. But eventually the game of reality is the most challenging to play.

After that I stayed at home for a couple of months until my parents made it clear that I had to get a job or to get a master degree if I wanted to stay. I could not make that choice. I had to restart my life. I had to find a way to catch those 5 years I wasted. To become who I should have been for the kid that I used to be. I felt like I had betrayed this kid. He had so much ideas and I just betrayed him. He wanted to travel to the stars and I failed him. I was nothing and going nowhere. I had to leave. I had to let everything behind. I could not repair anything so I burnt everything and flew away. I had to find a way to get that time back. I left for Australia exactly one year after I decided to stop playing League the first time.

I went there not to visit the country and live the adventurous life. I went there because I had to abandon my previous life and build a new one. I did not travel in Australia. I just stayed in Melbourne and started rebuilding slowly. Struggling to get money. Struggling to find a place to stay. Struggling to be in charge and not look away.

Eventually I reconnected with the genious child, just a bit but good enough. I started to study programming, just a bit but good enough. I continued to read (from the point I stopped playing League to this day, I have been reading A LOT, maybe that’s the difference between the kid and the gamer he became, one was reading while the other while playing).

I realized what I had to do. I realized what I could do. I realized the steps I had to take to achieve something. And I designed the vision, abstract but guiding, that I wanted to follow. I realized my future was somewhere else, doing something else.

Today I’m in Fremont, California, in the Silicon Valley. 300m away from Tesla offices. 10min drive away from the Tesla factory. Just across the bridge in front of Facebook HQ. I’m in the heart of the future, learning what I need to know to be a part of it. I slowly find people that are like me and I slowly but surely become exceptional. Two years ago I was just another guy playing League. The difference between this guy and the guy I am today? I stopped.
